.github/prompts/Summerball25.prompt.md, before:

---
mode: ask
---
# Little League Team Formation Guidelines

You are an expert Little League commissioner tasked with creating balanced teams from a roster of divisions, players, and their registration data. Your goal is to generate initial team assignments that consider coach request, teammate request, school name, and League Age, to distribute talent as evenly as possible across divisions and teams.

## Divisions

Here are the specific divisions. The number of teams needed for each division are dependent on how many kids we have. We try to keep it to around 13-16 players per team. Please give this back to me filled in with the number of teams we have for each division based on the players_2025.csv file. The divisions are as follows:

- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - Double-AA (Interleague):** [X] teams (e.g., 4 teams)
- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - Majors (Interleague):** [Y] teams (e.g., 3 teams)
- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - Single-A (Sandlot):** [Z] teams (e.g., 2 teams)
- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - TEEN/JUNIOR (Interleague):** [A] teams (e.g., 2 teams)
- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - Triple-AAA (Interleague):** [B] teams (e.g., 5 teams)
- **SOFTBALL - Summerball25 - AA/AAA (Sandlot):** [C] teams (e.g., 2 teams)
- **SOFTBALL - Summerball25 - AAA/Majors (Sandlot):** [D] teams (e.g., 1 team)

*Note: [X], [Y], [Z], [A], [B], [C], [D] represent the number of teams we have for each division and should = about 180 players total. We try to keep it to around 13-16 players per team. Exception: Juniors need about 20 per team.*

## Players Division breakdown like this:

Welcome to the 2025 Youth Baseball Season! Below you will find important information regarding our league divisions, age requirements.

### League Divisions & Key Details

| Division | League Age |
| :------------------------------ | :--------- |
| **T-Ball** | 5-6 |
| **KCP (Kindergarten Coach Pitch)** | 6-7 |
| **A Baseball (Kid-Pitch/Coach-Pitch Blend)** | 7-8 |
| **AA Baseball** | 8-9 |
| **AAA Baseball** | 10-11 |
| **Majors Baseball** | 11-12 |
| **Juniors Baseball** | 13-14 |
| **Seniors Baseball** | 15-16 |

### Division Specifics and Recommendations

**T-Ball (League Age 5-6)**
* Primarily for 5 and 6-year-olds.
* Less skilled or less interested 7-year-olds may also consider T-Ball.
* 6-year-olds with a year of T-ball experience are encouraged to consider KCP.

**KCP (Kindergarten Coach Pitch) (League Age 6-7)**
* Designed for kids who can hit pitches but might still need the assistance of a batting tee.
* Only players who are 6 years old or older are eligible, as per Little League rules.
* Games are played on the T-ball field.

**A Baseball (Kid-Pitch/Coach-Pitch Blend) (League Age 7-8)**
* Primarily for 7 and 8-year-olds.
* 6-year-olds with at least one year of T-ball experience are encouraged to register for this division.

**AA Baseball (League Age 8-9)**
* Mainly for 8 and 9-year-olds.
* Highly skilled 7-year-olds who played in this division last year may be considered.

**AAA Baseball (League Age 10-11)**
* Generally for 9 to 11-year-olds.
* Highly skilled 8-year-olds are rarely placed in this division.
* Participation for 9-year-olds is dependent on roster spots after placing 12, 11, and 10-year-olds.
* 12-year-olds must play in the Majors division, and 10-year-olds must play at AAA or above.
* 11-year-olds will be split between Majors and AAA.
* If space permits, 9-year-olds' eligibility for the AAA draft is determined by assessment scores (finalized by late January). Refer to the "Assessments" section for more details.
* 12-year-olds may play down with a completed safety waiver.

**Majors Baseball (League Age 11-12)**
* Primarily for 11 and 12-year-olds, with a limited number of highly skilled 10-year-olds.
* 9-year-olds are technically eligible, but placement in this division is extremely rare.

**Juniors Baseball (League Age 13-14)**
* For 13 and 14-year-olds.
* While 12-year-olds are eligible to join, it is generally not advised as it would mean foregoing their final year in the Majors division.

**Seniors Baseball (League Age 15-16)**
* Primarily for 15 and 16-year-olds.
* Players as young as 13 are eligible for this division.

## Team Balancing Criteria (prioritized)

1. **Volunteer Assignment:** You have also been given the volunteer data for about 50 parents. I can see the structure includes volunteer names, roles, contact information, and most importantly, the "Associated Participants" field that links them to their children. We need to make sure parents are paired with their children's teams while distributing volunteer roles evenly across all teams.
2. **Honor Teammate Requests:** Fulfill 'Teammate Request' as much as possible. If Player A requests Player B, try to put them on the same team. If multiple players request the same person, prioritize keeping strong connections together. Note: Some requests might be for players not in the dataset or for multiple players that are impossible to fulfill. Acknowledge these limitations.
3. **Honor Coach Requests:** Fulfill 'Coach Request' as much as possible. I will also be feeding you a list of nearly 50 volunteers and their data. I need you to integrate this information with the player assignments.
4. **School Distribution:** While not a primary balancing factor, schools are a good fallback and good factor to use in filling in the blanks as we go.

## Other Considerations
- You should calculate the number of teams for each division based on the player count in players_2025.csv (aiming for 13–16 per team with an ideal size about 15 players, except Juniors at ~20).
- For volunteers with multiple children in different divisions, they should be assigned to both teams if possible and they have volunteered for both teams. 
- Confirming: All Sandlot divisions (Single-A, AA/AAA Softball, AAA/Majors Softball) are NOT single, all-inclusive teams. Ask more about this if it's not clear. Sandlot means all kids in the division show up to a field with no team affiliation and then parents and coaches then form teams on the spot. This is not part of what you are doing here, but it is important to know that these divisions are not single teams.
- Do you want the output as Markdown tables (as in your previous docs), or as CSV, or both? Whatever is best for the readability but I do like the markdown format and csv tables.
- For team names please use sea animals found in the Pacific Northwest.
- You have access to the entire folder named 2025 Team Formation, including the players_2025.csv, players_2024.csv file, and the volunteers_2025.csv file. Use these files to create the team assignments based on the criteria provided. You also have access to the Summerball25 prompt file, which contains the specific divisions and team requirements. Also, read summerball25.html file and understand league age vs chronological age. 

## Output Requirements

For each division, provide a separate list of proposed teams. For each team, list the players assigned to it, along with their:

- School Name
- current grade
- Player Age
- Little League Age (2025)
- Little League Age (2026)
- Spring 2025 Division
- Teammate Request
- Coach Request

**Format your output clearly, using headings for each division and subheadings for each team. Include a brief summary of how well the balancing criteria were met for each division's team set.**

Begin generating the team assignments. Take your time and let me know any questions you may need.

Commit message:

Add initial check_names.py file for team formation validation

.github/prompts/Summerball25.prompt.md, after:

---
mode: ask
---
# Little League Team Formation Guidelines

You are an expert Little League commissioner tasked with creating balanced teams from a roster of divisions, players, and their registration data. Your goal is to generate initial team assignments that consider coach request, teammate request, school name, and League Age, to distribute talent as evenly as possible across divisions and teams.

## Divisions

Here are the specific divisions. The number of teams needed for each division are dependent on how many kids we have. We try to keep it to around 13-16 players per team. Please give this back to me filled in with the number of teams we have for each division based on the players_2025.csv file. The divisions are as follows:

- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - Double-AA (Interleague):** [X] teams (e.g., 4 teams)
- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - Majors (Interleague):** [Y] teams (e.g., 3 teams)
- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - Single-A (Sandlot):** [Z] teams (e.g., 2 teams)
- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - TEEN/JUNIOR (Interleague):** [A] teams (e.g., 2 teams)
- **BASEBALL - Summerball25 - Triple-AAA (Interleague):** [B] teams (e.g., 5 teams)
- **SOFTBALL - Summerball25 - AA/AAA (Sandlot):** [C] teams (e.g., 2 teams)
- **SOFTBALL - Summerball25 - AAA/Majors (Sandlot):** [D] teams (e.g., 1 team)

*Note: [X], [Y], [Z], [A], [B], [C], [D] represent the number of teams we have for each division and should = about 180 players total. We try to keep it to around 13-16 players per team. Exception: Juniors need about 20 per team.*

## Players Division breakdown like this:

Welcome to the 2025 Youth Baseball Season! Below you will find important information regarding our league divisions, age requirements.

### League Divisions & Key Details

| Division | League Age |
| :------------------------------ | :--------- |
| **T-Ball** | 5-6 |
| **KCP (Kindergarten Coach Pitch)** | 6-7 |
| **A Baseball (Kid-Pitch/Coach-Pitch Blend)** | 7-8 |
| **AA Baseball** | 8-9 |
| **AAA Baseball** | 10-11 |
| **Majors Baseball** | 11-12 |
| **Juniors Baseball** | 13-14 |
| **Seniors Baseball** | 15-16 |

### Division Specifics and Recommendations

**T-Ball (League Age 5-6)**
* Primarily for 5 and 6-year-olds.
* Less skilled or less interested 7-year-olds may also consider T-Ball.
* 6-year-olds with a year of T-ball experience are encouraged to consider KCP.

**KCP (Kindergarten Coach Pitch) (League Age 6-7)**
* Designed for kids who can hit pitches but might still need the assistance of a batting tee.
* Only players who are 6 years old or older are eligible, as per Little League rules.
* Games are played on the T-ball field.

**A Baseball (Kid-Pitch/Coach-Pitch Blend) (League Age 7-8)**
* Primarily for 7 and 8-year-olds.
* 6-year-olds with at least one year of T-ball experience are encouraged to register for this division.

**AA Baseball (League Age 8-9)**
* Mainly for 8 and 9-year-olds.
* Highly skilled 7-year-olds who played in this division last year may be considered.

**AAA Baseball (League Age 10-11)**
* Generally for 9 to 11-year-olds.
* Highly skilled 8-year-olds are rarely placed in this division.
* Participation for 9-year-olds is dependent on roster spots after placing 12, 11, and 10-year-olds.
* 12-year-olds must play in the Majors division, and 10-year-olds must play at AAA or above.
* 11-year-olds will be split between Majors and AAA.
* If space permits, 9-year-olds' eligibility for the AAA draft is determined by assessment scores (finalized by late January). Refer to the "Assessments" section for more details.
* 12-year-olds may play down with a completed safety waiver.

**Majors Baseball (League Age 11-12)**
* Primarily for 11 and 12-year-olds, with a limited number of highly skilled 10-year-olds.
* 9-year-olds are technically eligible, but placement in this division is extremely rare.

**Juniors Baseball (League Age 13-14)**
* For 13 and 14-year-olds.
* While 12-year-olds are eligible to join, it is generally not advised as it would mean foregoing their final year in the Majors division.

**Seniors Baseball (League Age 15-16)**
* Primarily for 15 and 16-year-olds.
* Players as young as 13 are eligible for this division.

## Team Balancing Criteria (prioritized)

1. **Volunteer Assignment:** You have also been given the volunteer data for about 50 parents. I can see the structure includes volunteer names, roles, contact information, and most importantly, the "Associated Participants" field that links them to their children. We need to make sure parents are paired with their children's teams while distributing volunteer roles evenly across all teams.
2. **Honor Teammate Requests:** Fulfill 'Teammate Request' as much as possible. If Player A requests Player B, try to put them on the same team. If multiple players request the same person, prioritize keeping strong connections together. Note: Some requests might be for players not in the dataset or for multiple players that are impossible to fulfill. Acknowledge these limitations.
3. **Honor Coach Requests:** Fulfill 'Coach Request' as much as possible. I will also be feeding you a list of nearly 50 volunteers and their data. I need you to integrate this information with the player assignments.
4. **School Distribution:** While not a primary balancing factor, schools are a good fallback and good factor to use in filling in the blanks as we go.

## Other Considerations
- You should calculate the number of teams for each division based on the player count in players_2025.csv (aiming for 13–16 per team with an ideal size about 15 players, except Juniors at ~20).
- For volunteers with multiple children in different divisions, they should be assigned to both teams if possible and they have volunteered for both teams. 
- Confirming: All Sandlot divisions (Single-A, AA/AAA Softball, AAA/Majors Softball) are NOT single, all-inclusive teams. Ask more about this if it's not clear. Sandlot means all kids in the division show up to a field with no team affiliation and then parents and coaches then form teams on the spot. This is not part of what you are doing here, but it is important to know that these divisions are not single teams.
- Do you want the output as Markdown tables (as in your previous docs), or as CSV, or both? Whatever is best for the readability but I do like the markdown format and csv tables.
- For team names please use sea animals found in the Pacific Northwest.
- You have access to the entire folder named 2025 Team Formation, including the players_2025.csv, players_2024.csv file, and the volunteers_2025.csv file. Use these files to create the team assignments based on the criteria provided. You also have access to the Summerball25 prompt file, which contains the specific divisions and team requirements. Also, read summerball25.html file and understand league age vs chronological age. 
## Output Requirements

For each division, provide a separate list of proposed teams. For each team, list the players assigned to it, along with their:

- School Name
- current grade
- Player Age
- Little League Age (2025)
- Little League Age (2026)
- Spring 2025 Division
- Teammate Request
- Coach Request

**Format your output clearly, using headings for each division and subheadings for each team. Include a brief summary of how well the balancing criteria were met for each division's team set. Also, can you denote the amount of kids on each team next to the header for that information?**

## FIRST Team Assignment
### Adam Bennett's Team

**Players:**
- Mina Bennett
- Tove Bennett
- Niam Gnaneswaran
- Elliott Gouwens
- Mateo Kawano
- Riku Kojima
- Yuiya Kusunoki
- Finn Millea
- Kai Nair
- Apollo Morales-Perea
- Quincy Quarders

**Please add other kids that fit the criteria and priorities.**

**Verification:** Please ensure that all player names listed above match with the entries in `players_2025.csv`, `players_2024.csv`, and `volunteers_2025.csv`. Any discrepancies should be corrected to ensure data consistency across all files. Ask if there is confusion.
